
10. Insufficient Logging & Monitoring:
---------------------------------------
---------------------------------------

Log
----
Companies are maintaining the log files to deliver a continuous trace of everything, which happens with their systems and data.

Monitoring
-----------
While logs tell an overview of what has already occurred, monitoring can provide an overview of what is presently happening.




Exploitation of insufficient logging and monitoring is the bedrock of nearly every major incident.
Attackers rely on the lack of monitoring and timely response to achieve their goals without being detected. 

The attackers action should be recorded sufficiently to understand what damages they may have inflicted.

Insufficient logging and monitoring vulnerability occurs when the security-critical events aren’t logged properly, and the system is not monitoring the current happenings

While insufficient logging and monitoring is too abstract to be a direct attack vector, it affects the detection and response to every single breach.




How Do You Detect Insufficient Logging & Monitoring?
-----------------------------------------------------
When an attacker tries to exploit a vulnerability, they spend a lot of time probing an application or system to find these vulnerabilities. 
In the event a system doesn’t have sufficient logging and monitoring in place, the attacker is free to leisurely explore for flaws and weaknesses, 
increasing the chance of successfully finding and exploiting an existing vulnerability.


Example 1: 
------------
	A small startup falls victim to a brute force attack to break an employee’s password. 
	Unfortunately, the victim system does not create alerts for failed login attempts so the attacker has plenty of time to keep trying. Finally gained the	 entry.



Which events to log
--------------------
    Input validation failures e.g. protocol violations, unacceptable encodings, invalid parameter names and values
    Output validation failures e.g. database record set mismatch, invalid data encoding
    Authentication successes and failures
    Authorization (access control) failures
    Session management failures e.g. cookie session identification value modification
    Application errors and system events e.g. syntax and runtime errors, connectivity problems, performance issues, third party service error messages, file system errors, file upload virus detection, configuration changes
    Application and related systems start-ups and shut-downs, and logging initialization (starting, stopping or pausing)


also include event attributes like:

	when > Log date and time 
	where > Code location, Application Address, Service, etc
	who > attacker ip address, device name, user identity if authenticated
	what > Description




How to prevent Insufficient Logging and Monitoring
----------------------------------------------------
    Ensure all login, access control failures, and server-side input validation failures can be logged 
    Ensure that logs are generated in a format that can be easily consumed by a centralized log management solutions.
    Establish effective monitoring and alerting such that suspicious activities are detected and responded to in a timely fashion.
    Establish or adopt an incident response and recovery plan.



