You can’t correct something that you don’t know.


6. Security Misconfiguration:
------------------------------
------------------------------

	Security Misconfiguration is simply defined as failing to implement all the security controls for a server or web application, 
	or implementing the security controls, but doing so with errors.

Security Misconfiguration arises when Security settings are defined, implemented, and maintained as defaults or misconfigured. 
Good security requires a secure configuration defined and deployed for the application, web server, database server, and platform. 
It is equally important to have the software up to date.



Improper server or web application configuration leading to various flaws:

    Debugging enabled.
    Incorrect folder permissions.
    Using default accounts or passwords.
    Setup/Configuration pages enabled.
  




Is the Application Vulnerable:
-------------------------------

1. Default accounts are not changed.
	Attacker discovers the standard admin pages are on your server, logs in with default passwords, and takes over

2. Unnecessary features are enabled or installed (e.g. unnecessary ports, services, pages, accounts, or privileges).

3. Error handling reveals stack traces or other overly informative error messages to users.
	Attackers love the extra information error messages provide.

4. Directory listing is not disabled on your server
	Attacker discovers they can simply list directories to find any file. 
	Attacker finds and downloads all your compiled Java classes, which they decompile and reverse engineer to get all your custom code. 
	They then find a serious access control flaw in your application.

5. The software is out of date or vulnerable

6. App server comes with sample applications that are not removed from your production server
	These sample applications have well-known security flaws attackers can use to compromise your server.




Prevent Security Misconfiguration
-----------------------------------

The principle of least privilege: Everything off by default.

    1. Disable administration interfaces.
    2. Enforcing strong access controls
    3. Disable use of default accounts/passwords.
    4. Configure server to prevent unauthorized access, directory listing, etc.
    5. Encrypting data in transit or at rest.
    6. Keeping software up to date
    7. Developing a repeatable patching schedule
    8. Disable debugging.
    9. Run security scanners and perform regular system audits  
